# Explanation
- The compilation process of a C program with the GCC compiler consists of four main steps:
	1. *Preprocessing*:
		- Replacing macros with their values
		- Including header files
		- Removing comments from the code
		- Generating an intermediate file (also called preprocessed code) that is used in the next step.
	2. *Compilation*: The compiler reads the preprocessed code and
		1. Performs syntax and semantic analysis of the code
		2. Checks for errors and generates warnings if necessary.
		3. If there are no errors, the compiler generates an assembly code file that contains low-level instructions that can be understood by the machine (refer to [[Overview of assembly x86]]).
	3. Assembly:
		- The assembler reads the assembly code generated by the compiler and translates it into machine code.
		- The output of this step is an *object file*, which is a machine-readable file that contains the compiled code.
		- There are three types of object files:
			- *Relocatable object file* (.o file)
				- Contains code and data in a form that can combined with other relocatable object files.
				- Each .o file is produced from exactly one source file.
			- *Executable object file* (a.out file)
				- Contains code and data in a form that can be copied directly into memory and the executed.
			- *Shared object file* (.so file)
				- Special type of relocatable object files that can be linked dynamically (i.e, either at load-time or run-time).
				- Called DLLs (Dynamic link libraries) in Windows.
		- All types of object files are formatted in *Executable and linkable format* (ELF).
	4. [[Linking]]:
		- The linker takes the object files generated by the assembler and combines them with the necessary libraries to create an executable file.
		- The linker resolves external references, assigns memory addresses to variables and functions, and performs other tasks to create a complete executable file.

# Sources
- [Medium - Compilation process with GCC and C programs](https://medium.com/@luischaparroc/compilation-process-with-gcc-and-c-programs-344445180ac8)
- [CMU Introduction to Computer Systems - Lecture 13](https://scs.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=0aef84fc-a53b-49c6-bb43-14cb2b175249)