# Explanation
- It's the technique of abstracting and managing physical memory resources in a way that provides an illusion of a larger and more flexible memory space to the running processes.
- Operating systems virtualize memory for the following reasons:
	- **Isolation**: Each process has its own virtual #address_space, which prevents processes from accessing or modifying each other's memory.
	- **Abstraction**: Programs run in a uniform and contiguous virtual memory model, independent of the underlying physical memory hardware, which simplifies programming and enables portability across different systems.
	- **Expanded Address Space**: Virtual memory allows programs to access more memory than what is physically available. It enables efficient memory utilization by storing less frequently used data on disk, known as swapping or paging.
	- **Sharing**: Multiple processes can share memory by mapping the same physical memory pages into their virtual address spaces.
	- **Protection**: Each page can have different access permissions, preventing unauthorized access to memory regions.
- #address_space: the running program's view of memory in the system.
	- It contains all of the memory state of the running program (refer to [[Memory Layout]]).
	- Every address generated by a user program is a virtual address.
- There are two approaches the OS can take to translate virtual addresses to physical ones while the process in running:
	- *Static (software-based) Relocation*: a piece of software (the *loader*) takes an executable and rewrites its addresses to the desired offset in physical memory before running.
		- Advantages: no translation overhead in runtime.
		- Disadvantages:
			- Assumes the entire #address_space lives contiguously in physical memory.
			- Doesn't provide protection as processes can illegally access other process's or even OS memory.
			- It's difficult to later relocate an #address_space to another location.
	- *Dynamic (Hardware-based) Relocation*: on each memory reference, the hardware changes the virtual address provided by the instruction to a physical address.
		- Called *Dynamic* because the OS can move address spaces even after the process has started running.
		- The part of the CPU that helps with address translation is the *Memory Management Unit* (MMU).
		- Dynamic Relocation can be implemented in different ways:
			- [[Base and Bounds]]
			- [[Segmentation]]
			- [[Paging]]
- To support a large address space more than what is physically available, the OS uses [[Swap Space]].
- Case Study: [[Linux Virtual Memory System]]

# Sources
- OSTEP Chapter 13 - "The Abstraction: Address Spaces"
- OSTEP Chapter 15 - "Mechanism: Address Translation"